hello I'm aai maseri welcome to the
program we start in the Middle East
where a member of Israel's war cabinet
has given Hamas a deadline to release
all the hostages or the military will
launch its offensive in Rafa Benny Gant
said that unless they were freed by the
start of Ramadan that's on the 10th of
March troops would move into the city
now Rafa is currently overcrowded with
at least 1.4 million Palestinians
Sheltering there speaking on Sunday Mr
gance who is a former Defense Minister
and a current member of Israel's war
cabinet he said the world must know and
Hamas leaders must know if by Ramadan
our hostages are not home the fighting
will continue everywhere to include the
Rafa area well earlier the UN public
health agency said a key Gaza hospital
has ceased to function following an
Israeli raid the World Health
Organization said it hadn't been allowed
to enter NASA Hospital in KH Yunis north
of Rafa to assess the situation the
Israel defend forces entered the complex
on Thursday saying intelligence
indicated that hostages taken by Hamas
were being held there they released
these pictures which they claim show
weapons found in cars surrounding the
hospital now with exactly 3 weeks to go
before the start of Ramadan reports from
Rafa say that a few people are leaving
but that most are still waiting simply
unsure what to do these pictures are
from Eastern Rafa people have been
inspecting the damage following a
strike they say the place was struck
based on what the residents say there
were 23 people inside they managed to
rescue some the rest are still under the
rubble there's no safe place in the Gaza
Strip they even hit the UN schools and
residential areas they tell people to
evacuate to Safe designated zones that
are not safe there's no safe
place with more on this let's speak to
to our correspondent Jenny Hill Jenny
thanks so much for joining us what more
do we know about the offensive right
now well it's the first time that we've
had any sense of time scale or deadline
um if Israel is is serious about um its
warning um and presuming that
negotiations to broker a temporary
ceasefire and the release of those
Israeli hostages continue to founder as
they have done uh in recent days and
weeks um then we know that Israel has
three weeks to in effect make good on
its promise to get civilians in Rafa out
of Harm's Way before that ground
offensive begins now Israel has not
published any kind of detailed plan as
to how it intends to make sure that
those displaced civilians can be moved
to safety there are very limited options
for them you mentioned that some people
have been trying to leave we've seen
convoys in recent days trying to get out
of Rafa um there are many places for
people to go um some could head north or
west to areas of open ground where there
are no facilities um no access to any
kind of infrastructure um there is talk
that some people might try to get across
the border into Egypt Rafa city of
course is the most southern point of
Gaza people are living in makeshift
tents right up against the the border
wall there in recent days there have
been reports that Egypt looks to be
building some kind of Walled enclosure
on its side of the border which some
believe might be a kind of facility for
taking in refugees but that's been
publicly denied by the Egyptian
authorities who say that they are not
making any such preparations um so
there's mounting International concern
about the safety of the people who've
been displaced several times over in
most cases and are now living down on
gaza's southernmost tip um that pressure
coming most notably from Israel's
closest Ally the US and it's interesting
to note that Ben Benjamin Netanyahu the
is Israeli Prime Minister who of course
says he has to go into Rafa Because he
believes that there are battalions of
Hamas Fighters hold up there um over the
weekend has repeatedly insisted that he
intends to as he puts it finish the job
um making those comments again last
night at an assembled um audience of
Jewish American leaders you know he is
really defying us calls to rethink his
strategy in Rafa and J Jenny we've
obviously talked about uh this threat
from Israel but what do we know about
any progress when it comes to diplomatic
negotiations
negotiations well in terms of the talks
um aimed at brokering a ceasefire and
the release of Israeli hostages um the
signs really aren't good at all the
qataris um who've been leading those
negotiations have admitted themselves
that um prospects don't look good at all
um both Hamas and Israel completely
reject one another's demands um Benjamin
Netanyahu again over the weekend has
repeated what he said previously he
considers hamas's demands to be
completely delusional so not much really
looking good there at all um and
actually if you look sort of to The
Wider context as well um over the
weekend Benjamin netanyahu's War cabinet
has completely rejected the idea of what
they describe as the unilateral creation
of a a Palestinian State that's
something that Western allies were were
starting to talk about as a potential
longer term um settlement whereby Saudi
would normalize its relations with
Israel um there would be at least a
pathway to the creation of a Palestinian
State these were things which were being
talked about particularly by the US
Administration that is something which
appears to have really enraged Benjamin
Netanyahu and he has completely closed
the door on that for for the time being
so in terms of the mood music it really
doesn't look good at all and very few
positive signs and that means that you
know for those million and a half um
displaced civilians stuck in Rafa the
mood is is one of great fear right now
all right Jenny thank you so much for
that update